# STA-215-Final-Project---Gender-and-Film
This project looks at how gender is represented in popular films under a number of lenses: number of female named characters, ratio of female-to-male characters, whether or not films pass the Bechdel Test, and whether or not females within the movie meaningfully move the plot forward.  

The first variable is the Passage of the Bechdel Test. The Bechdel Test is the idea that a movie must have two named female characters interact with one another and talk about something besides a man. This variable will be qualitative, with the movies receiving a “Pass” state if there is at least one scene within the film that fulfills the requirements. The movies will receive a “Fail” state if there is not a single scene in the film that fulfills these requirements. “Pass” can be assigned a value of 1 in the codebook, while “Fail” can be assigned a value of 2. 

A second qualitative variable is whether or not the Plot is Meaningfully Driven Forward by a Female Character. This will be determined by seeing whether any major plot point found at any point within one of the films is due to a decision made by a female character. An answer of “Yes” (which can be listed as a 1 in the codebook) will be marked if a female character makes an active decision that impacts the plot. An answer of “No” (listed as a 2 in the codebook) will be marked down if the plot is not driven forward at any point by an active decision from a female character.

The first quantitative variable is the Number of Named Female Leads within any given movie. This will be a quantitative variable that starts at 0 (when there are no named female leads) and increases by integers of 1 (0, 1, 2, etc) whenever a named female character appears in the film, with the total amount being finalized with the completion of the film. 

The second quantitative variable is the Ratio of Female-Male Characters. Starting at 0 (no female characters) and ranging to 1 (all-female casting), this variable will be stored as a decimal that demonstrates the number of female characters divided by the total number of characters in the film to see the ratio of female characters to their male counterparts. 

The base data for this project (stored here as "raw_data.csv") was taken from the top 40 fiction feature films from Metacritic (documentaries or short film series were excluded), with all observations being marked down during different showings of each film. 

The Script file is a script coded in R that takes the data from raw_data.csv and analyzes it by finding the mean and SD of each variable, the Chi-Squared of two qualitative variables, the ANOVA of a quantiative and qualitative variable, and a scatter plot (including linear regression line and x- and y- means) of two quantitative variables.
